MATLAB Licensing | IT@Cornell
Skip to main content
Software Licensing and Installation Articles
Software Licensing and Installation
Math and Science
LabVIEW Licensing
Mathematica Licensing
Mathematica Installation
All Software Licensing and Installation Articles
Available to:
Students
,
Staff
,
IT Professionals
,
Faculty
MATLAB Licensing
This article applies to:
Software Licensing and Installation
MATLAB is a numerical computing environment and programming language. We currently have two licenses, both with the same set of 49 additional extensions and toolboxes. MATLAB licensing is fee-based.
Academic licensing
for staff and faculty
Academic licensing must be paid for by Cornell departmental funds.
Installation onto Cornell-owned equipment only.
Home Use licensing is available at no extra cost.
Student licensing
for currently registered students at Cornell University, for installation onto student-owned equipment only,
is available at no cost
.
Components
Cornell's license for MATLAB includes the full suite of MATLAB and Simulink products.
MATLAB: Full Suite
Simulink
Aerospace
Blockset
Aerospace Toolbox
Antenna Toolbox
Audio System Toolbox
Automated Driving System Toolbox
Bioinfomatics Toolbox
Communications System Toolbox
Computer Vision System Toolbox
Control System Toolbox
Curve-Fitting Toolbox
Data Acquisition Toolbox
Database Toolbox
Datafeed Toolbox
DSP System Toolbox
Econometrics Toolbox
Embedded Coder
Filter Design HDL Coder
Financial Instruments Toolbox
Financial Toolbox
Fixed-Point Toolbox
Fuzzy Logic Toolbox
Global Optimization Toolbox
HDL Coder
HDL Verifier
Image Acquisition Toolbox
Image Processing Toolbox
Instrument Control Toolbox
LTE Systems Toolbox
Mapping Toolbox
MATLAB Coder
MATLAB
Compiler
MATLAB
Compiler SDK
MATLAB
Report Generator
Model Predictive Control Toolbox
Model-Based Calibration Toolbox
Neural Network Toolbox
OPC Toolbox
Parallel Computing Toolbox
Partial Differential Equation Toolbox
Phased Array System Toolbox
Polyspace Bug Finder
Polyspace Code Prover
Powertrain Blockset
RF Blockset
RF Toolbox
Risk Management Toolbox
Robotics System Toolbox
Robust Control Toolbox
Signal Processing Toolbox
SimBiology
SimEvents
Simscape
Simscape Driveline
Simscape Electronics
Simscape Fluids
Simscape Multibody
Simscape Power Systems
Simulink 3D Animation
Simulink Code Inspector
Simulink Coder
Simulink Control Design
Simulink Design Optimization
Simulink
Design Verifier
Simulink
Desktop Real-Time
Simulink PLC Coder
Simulink Real-Time
Simulink Report Generator
Simulink Test
Simulink
Verification and Validation
Spreadsheet Link
Stateflow
Statistics and Machine Learning Toolbox
Symbolic Math Toolbox
System Identification Toolbox
Trading Toolbox
Vehicle Network Toolbox
Vision HDL Toolbox
WLAN System Toolbox
Wavelet Toolbox
Purchase a License
Institutional Volume License (Faculty, Staff, and Students)
The MATLAB volume license runs from August 1 through July 31 of the following calendar year. Please note that the end date is the same regardless of the date of purchase.
If you did not pre-order your MATLAB license during our license assessment survey in July, please order your license by visiting the
Cornell Software Licensing page
. Click
MATLAB
in the left sidebar.
Licensing Options
Staff & Faculty Licenses
Your MATLAB volume license allows you to install in either a single-user or a network license configuration. Please note that you need to purchase multiple licenses to take full advantage of the network option.
A
single-user license
allows installation onto one Cornell-owned computer. If you have been assigned a laptop computer for travel, you may also install MATLAB onto that machine under your single-user license.
Home use
: In addition, your MATLAB license allows home use at no additional charge: you may install MATLAB onto your personally-owned equipment under your single-user license. You may not run MATLAB on multiple machines at the same time under one single-user license.
A
network license
entitles you to install MATLAB on multiple machines on the same subnet, with one designated as a MATLAB license server. You can then use MATLAB simultaneously on a number of machines equal to the number of licenses that you purchased.
Student Licenses
MATLAB student licenses are available at no cost to all registered full-time and part-time students at Cornell University and the Weill Cornell Medical College. Installation is authorized for a single computer that is the personal property of the student. Student licenses may NOT be installed onto any Cornell-owned computer.
Download
Recommended: Download Directly from MathWorks
We recommend
downloading MATLAB directly from the vendor
. You may obtain any supported version of MATLAB from Mathworks. You will need to register your
NetID@cornell.edu
address with MathWorks to download the software.
Download from Cornell's Servers
If you have a situation where downloading MATLAB directly from the vendor is impractical, you may be able to download an installer from Cornell's local download server instead. Please
contact CU Software Licensing
for the download link. Specify the specific MATLAB release you need and whether it is for Windows, macOS, or Linux. The current release is usually available immediately; prior releases may take 2-5 business days to prepare.
Please be advised that any locally-hosted installer includes every licensed component and is a significantly larger file than the one you would download from MathWorks.
Installation
How to Install MATLAB
System Requirements
Please see the
MathWorks website for MATLAB system requirements
.
Support
For support, contact Mathworks.
Technical Support
Monday - Friday, 8:30am - 8:00pm ET 508-647-7000, press 5
Customer Support
Monday - Friday, 8:30am - 5:30pm ET 508-647-7000, press 4
Comments?
To share feedback about this page or request support,
log in
with your NetID
At Cornell we value your privacy. To view
our university's privacy practices, including
information use and third parties, visit
University Privacy
.
Thanks for letting me know