Error Handling
Generate, catch, and respond to warnings and errors

To make your code more robust, check for edge cases and problematic conditions. The simplest approach is to use an if or switch statement to check for a specific condition, and then issue an error or warning. For more information, see Issue Warnings and Errors.

Another approach is to catch errors so that the program can continue. For instance, this code creates a variable if loading that variable from a file fails.

try 
   load(filename,"X")
catch 
   warning("Unable to load data. Setting X to an empty array.")
   X = []; 
end

MATLAB Language Syntax
try, catch	Execute statements and catch resulting errors
Functions
error	Throw error and display message
warning	Display warning message
lastwarn	Last warning message
assert	Throw error if condition false
onCleanup	Cleanup tasks upon function completion
cancel	Cancel cleanup tasks (Since R2025a)
Topics
Issue Warnings and Errors
To flag unexpected conditions when running a program, issue a warning. To flag fatal problems within the program, throw an error. Unlike warnings, errors halt the execution of a program.

Suppress Warnings
Your program might issue warnings that do not always adversely affect execution. To avoid confusion, you can hide warning messages during execution by changing their states from 'on' to 'off'.

Restore Warnings
You can save the warning current states, modify warning states, and restore the original warning states. This technique is useful if you temporarily turn off some warnings and later reinstate the original settings.

Change How Warnings Display
You can control how warnings appear in MATLAB®, including the display of warning suppression information and stack traces.

Use try/catch to Handle Errors
Use a try/catch statement to execute code after your program encounters an error.

Clean Up When Functions Complete
It is a good programming practice to leave your program environment in a clean state that does not interfere with any other program code.

Related Information
Argument Definitions
