Black-Oil Simulations - DWSIM - Open Source Chemical Process Simulator
Black-Oil Simulations
From DWSIM - Open Source Chemical Process Simulator
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Introduction
When fluids flow from a petroleum reservoir to the surface, pressure and temperature decrease. This affects the gas/liquid equilibrium and the properties of the gas and liquid phases. The blackoil model enables estimation of these, from a minimum of input data.
The black-oil model employs 2 pseudo components:
Oil which is usually defined as the produced oil, at stock tank conditions.
Gas which then is defined as the produced gas at atmospheric standard conditions.
The basic modeling assumption is that the gas may dissolve in the liquid hydrocarbon phase, but no oil will dissolve in the gaseous phase. This implies that the composition of the gaseous phase is assumed the same at all pressure and temperatures.
The black-oil model assumption is reasonable for mixtures of heavy and light components, like many reservoir oils. The assumption gets worse for mixtures containing much of intermediate components (propane, butane), and is directly misleading for mixtures of light and intermediate components typically found in condensate reservoirs.
In DWSIM, a set of models calculates properties for a black oil fluid so it can be used in a process simulation. Black-oil fluids are defined in DWSIM through a minimum set of properties:
Oil specific gravity (SGo) at standard conditions
Gas specific gravity (SGg) at standard conditions
Gas-to-oil ratio (GOR) at standard conditions
Basic Sediments and Water (%)
Black oil fluids are defined and created through the Compound Creator tool. If multiple black-oil fluids are added to a simulation, a single fluid is calculated (based on averaged black-oil properties) and used to calculate stream equilibrium conditions and phase properties.
The
Black-Oil Property Package
is a simplified package for quick process calculations involving the black-oil fluids described above. All properties required by the unit operations are calculated based on the set of four basic properties (SGo, SGg, GOR and BSW), so the results of the calculations cannot be considered precise in any way.
They can exhibit errors of several orders of magnitude when compared to real-world data.
For more accurate petroleum fluid simulations, use the petroleum characterization tools available in DWSIM together with an Equation of State model like
Peng-Robinson
or
Soave-Redlich-Kwong
.
Setup
Create Black-Oil compounds and load them into DWSIM using the Compound Creator.
Create a new simulation. Add Black-Oil compounds to it.
Add a Black-Oil Property Package to the simulation. The Flash Algorithm setting is irrelevant because the Black-Oil PP has its own flash algorithm.
Add a Material Stream to the simulation and set the amount of the black oil compounds in the mixture.
When the Stream is calculated, the equilibrium phases will be displayed with all the required properties calculated, so you can go forward simulating your process with black-oil fluids.
If you inspect fluid properties through the Pure Compound Properties Utility, you'll notice that the Black-Oil fluids only have black-oil properties defined. That's why they won't work at all with regular Property Packages.
Retrieved from "
https://dwsim.org/wiki/index.php?title=Black-Oil_Simulations&oldid=466
"
Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Log in
Namespaces
Page
Discussion
Variants
Views
Read
View source
View history
More
Search
Main Page
Patrons
Literature
Award
Tutorials
Features
Features
CAPE-OPEN
Excel Add-In
Automation
Aqueous Electrolytes
Property Package
Extensions (Plugins)
OPC UA Client
Capital Cost Estimator
Neural Network Unit Operation
Pipe Network Unit Operation
ThermoC Bridge Library
Standalone Thermo
Standalone Thermo Library
Support
Support
Licensing
API Help
Forums
Report a bug
Mobile Apps
DWSIM for iPhone/iPad
DWSIM for Android
Categories
Source Code
Project Summary
Source Code
Mailing Lists
DWSIM Users
DWSIM Developers
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
This page was last edited on 7 July 2020, at 20:34.
Privacy policy
About DWSIM - Open Source Chemical Process Simulator
Disclaimers