Advanced EOS Library - DWSIM - Open Source Chemical Process Simulator
Advanced EOS Library
From DWSIM - Open Source Chemical Process Simulator
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Advanced EOS Library is a bridge which connects DWSIM on Windows and Linux to a collection of open-source MATLAB/Octave routines which implement various Equations of State, including PC-SAFT with support for associating compounds and Perturbed-Hard-Sphere-Chain (PHSC).
The original project (
http://hpp.uva.es/open-source-software-eos/
) consists in a set of MATLAB programs for the calculation of phase equilibrium and other thermodynamic properties using different equations of state (classical cubic equations, cubic equations with excess Gibbs energy mixing rules, group contribution equations and SAFT equations). All programs are open-source and have been designed to be easily reusable using an object-oriented programming methodology.
This library exposes these programs to DWSIM as fully-implemented Property Packages by running them in Octave (
https://www.gnu.org/software/octave/
) and reading the results through a C# interface (
https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/342007/OctaveSharp-Running-GNU-Octave-with-Csharp
).
Contents
1
Available Equations of State
2
Calculated Properties
3
Download
4
Installation and Usage
5
References
Available Equations of State
Perturbed-Chain Statistical Associating Fluid Theory (PC-SAFT) with associating compounds [1]
Statistical Associating Fluid Theory (Original) [2]
Perturbed Hard-Sphere-Chain (PHSC) [3]
Peng-Robinson with Wong-Sandler mixing rules (PRWS) [4]
Valderrama-Patel-Teja (VPT) [5]
Calculated Properties
Fugacity Coefficient
Density
Compressibility Factor
Enthalpy, Entropy and Heat Capacity (optional, with Lee-Kesler model as the default selection)
Download
ZIP Package for Windows and Linux:
version 1.5
Installation and Usage
1. This library requires DWSIM 5.2 or newer and
GNU Octave
in order to work correctly. Download Octave from
here
. Debian-based Linux distros can install Octave with
sudo apt-get install octave
2. Install:
Unpack the contents of the ZIP file into DWSIM's current installation directory, overwriting existing files.
3. Open DWSIM and setup the bridge with Octave on Edit > General Settings > Other > DWSIM/Octave Bridge:
Octave Binaries Path: select the path to the "bin" folder where Octave is installed. This is for Windows systems only.
4. Create a new simulation or open the Simulation Settings window. You should see the new Property Packages at the end of the list:
5. Important: always check if the model has the required parameters for the added compounds. Failing to do this can result in undesirable behavior...
6. If everything is correctly configured, you should see some messages in the Information Window about the Octave processes running the .m files to calculate the required properties.
If you get the "An attempt was made to load an assembly from a network location which would have caused the assembly to be sandboxed in previous versions of the .NET Framework" error message, unblock the downloaded ZIP file (right-mouse button click > 'Properties') and extract it again to DWSIM's folder.
References
Gross, J., Sadowski, G., 2001. Perturbed-Chain SAFT: An equation of state based on a perturbation theory for chain molecules. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 40, 1244-1260.
Chapman, W. G., Gubbins, K. E., Jackson, G., Radosz, M., 1990. New reference equation of state for associating liquids. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 29, 1709-1721).
Song, Y., Lambert, S. M., Prausnitz, J. M., 1994. A Perturbed Hard-Sphere-Chain equation of state for normal fluids and polymers. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 33, 1047-1057
Wong, S. S. H., Sandler, S. I., 1992. A Theoretically correct mixing rule for cubic equations of state. AIChE J. 38, 671-680
Valderrama, J.O., 1990. A Generalized Patel-Teja Equation of State for Polar and Nonpolar Fluids and Their Mixtures. JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING OF JAPAN 23, No. 1, 87-91
Retrieved from "
https://dwsim.org/wiki/index.php?title=Advanced_EOS_Library&oldid=506
"
Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Log in
Namespaces
Page
Discussion
Variants
Views
Read
View source
View history
More
Search
Main Page
Patrons
Literature
Award
Tutorials
Features
Features
CAPE-OPEN
Excel Add-In
Automation
Aqueous Electrolytes
Property Package
Extensions (Plugins)
OPC UA Client
Capital Cost Estimator
Neural Network Unit Operation
Pipe Network Unit Operation
ThermoC Bridge Library
Standalone Thermo
Standalone Thermo Library
Support
Support
Licensing
API Help
Forums
Report a bug
Mobile Apps
DWSIM for iPhone/iPad
DWSIM for Android
Categories
Source Code
Project Summary
Source Code
Mailing Lists
DWSIM Users
DWSIM Developers
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
This page was last edited on 12 August 2020, at 14:04.
Privacy policy
About DWSIM - Open Source Chemical Process Simulator
Disclaimers